.TH AXT-TEST 1
.SH NAME
axt-test \- run and normalize project test suites
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B axt-test
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B axt-test
list-frameworks
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B axt-test
detects supported test frameworks, runs the local test command, parses available
machine or stable text output, and emits normalized suite and case records.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --framework jest|vitest|pytest|cargo|go|bun|deno
Force a framework.
.TP
.B --filter \fIPATTERN\fR
Map a test name filter to the selected framework.
.TP
.B --files \fIPATH\fR...
Run tests for selected files.
.TP
.B --changed
Run changed test files from Git status.
.TP
.B --changed-since \fIREF\fR
Run test files changed between a Git reference and HEAD.
.TP
.B --single
Refuse multiple detected frameworks.
.TP
.B --bail
Stop after the first failure where supported.
.TP
.B --workers \fIN\fR
Set worker count where supported.
.TP
.B --top-failures \fIN\fR
Limit expanded failure detail.
.TP
.B --failures-only
Emit only failed case records in compact outputs.
.TP
.B --rerun-failed
Shortcut for failure-focused agent output.
.TP
.B --include-output
Include captured stdout/stderr when available.
.TP
.B --pass-through -- \fIARGS\fR...
Pass framework-specific arguments.
.SH OUTPUT
Supports human, compact, --json, and --agent. Compact text is the non-TTY default. JSON emits schema axt.test.v1. Agent mode emits summary-first JSONL and defaults to failure-only case records.
.SH FRAMEWORKS
Supported frameworks are Jest, Vitest, Pytest, Cargo test, Go test, Bun test,
and Deno test. Missing local toolchains return feature_unsupported.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
axt-test
axt-test --framework cargo --json
axt-test --changed --agent
axt-test list-frameworks
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR axt-run (1),
.BR axt-doc (1)
