.TH AXT-PEEK 1
.SH NAME
axt-peek \- snapshot directories, metadata, languages, and Git state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B axt-peek
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIPATH\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B axt-peek
returns a compact snapshot of one or more directory roots. It reports entry
kind, byte size, language guess, Git status, modified time, and optional
BLAKE3 hashes. When no path is provided, it scans the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --depth \fIN\fR
Maximum traversal depth below each root.
.TP
.B --files-only
Include only regular files.
.TP
.B --dirs-only
Include only directories.
.TP
.B --include-hidden
Include dotfiles and hidden paths.
.TP
.B --no-ignore
Disable ignore-file handling.
.TP
.B --git, --no-git
Enable or disable Git discovery and status lookup.
.TP
.B --changed
Include only entries with non-clean Git status.
.TP
.B --changed-since \fIREF\fR
Include files changed between a Git reference and HEAD.
.TP
.B --type \fIKIND\fR
Filter by text, binary, image, archive, code, config, or data.
.TP
.B --lang \fILANG\fR
Filter by lowercase language name.
.TP
.B --hash none|blake3
Select hash mode.
.TP
.B --summary-only
Emit only summary data.
.TP
.B --sort name|size|mtime|git|type
Sort output entries.
.TP
.B --reverse
Reverse selected sort.
.SH OUTPUT
Supports human, --plain, --json, --json-data, --jsonl, and --agent. JSON emits
schema axt.peek.v1. Agent mode emits ACF schema axt.peek.agent.v1.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
axt-peek .
axt-peek crates/axt-peek --depth 3 --agent
axt-peek . --changed --json
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR axt-run (1),
.BR axt-doc (1),
.BR axt-drift (1),
.BR axt-port (1),
.BR axt-test (1)
