.TH AXT-RUN 1
.SH NAME
axt-run \- run commands with structured execution envelopes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B axt-run
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] -- \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARG\fR...]
.br
.B axt-run
show [\fINAME\fR|last] [--stdout|--stderr]
.br
.B axt-run
list
.br
.B axt-run
clean [--older-than \fIDURATION\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B axt-run
runs a child command and emits structured data containing exit code, duration,
stdout/stderr summaries, saved stream logs, timeout state, and changed files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --save \fINAME\fR
Name the saved run artifact.
.TP
.B --no-save
Disable .axt/runs artifacts.
.TP
.B --cwd \fIDIR\fR
Run the child command from another directory.
.TP
.B --env \fIKEY=VALUE\fR
Add an environment value for the child.
.TP
.B --env-file \fIFILE\fR
Read additional child environment values from a file.
.TP
.B --timeout \fIDURATION\fR
Terminate the child on timeout.
.TP
.B --capture always|never|auto
Control stdout/stderr capture.
.TP
.B --watch-files, --no-watch-files
Enable or disable changed-file snapshots.
.TP
.B --include \fIGLOB\fR, --exclude \fIGLOB\fR
Filter file watching.
.TP
.B --hash
Use BLAKE3 hashes for changed-file detection.
.TP
.B --shell
Run through the platform shell.
.SH OUTPUT
Supports human, --plain, --json, --json-data, --jsonl, and --agent. JSON emits
schema axt.run.v1. Agent mode emits ACF schema axt.run.agent.v1.
.SH FILES
.I .axt/runs/<name>/
contains meta.json, stdout.log, stderr.log, changed.json, and summary.agent.acf.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
axt-run -- cargo test
axt-run --timeout 30s --json -- npm test
axt-run show last --stderr
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR axt-peek (1),
.BR axt-drift (1),
.BR axt-test (1)
