.TH AXT-PORT 1
.SH NAME
axt-port \- inspect and free local TCP/UDP ports
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B axt-port
[\fIFLAGS\fR] list
.br
.B axt-port
[\fIFLAGS\fR] who \fIPORT\fR [\fIPORT\fR...]
.br
.B axt-port
[\fIFLAGS\fR] free \fIPORT\fR [\fIPORT\fR...] [--dry-run]
.br
.B axt-port
[\fIFLAGS\fR] watch \fIPORT\fR [--timeout \fIDURATION\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B axt-port
maps local listening TCP/UDP sockets to process metadata and can signal holder
processes through the free subcommand.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --proto tcp|udp|both
Filter protocol.
.TP
.B --include-loopback true|false
Include or exclude loopback binds.
.TP
.B --listening-only true|false
Restrict socket listing to listening sockets.
.TP
.B --host \fIADDR\fR
Filter by bind address.
.TP
.B --owner \fIUSER\fR
Filter by owner where supported.
.TP
.B --pid \fIPID\fR
Filter by process ID.
.TP
.B --dry-run
For free, report planned actions without signaling.
.TP
.B --signal term|kill|int
Select signal for free.
.TP
.B --grace \fIDURATION\fR
Wait before escalation.
.TP
.B --confirm
Prompt before signaling when interactive.
.SH OUTPUT
Supports human, compact, --json, and --agent. Compact text is the non-TTY default. JSON emits schema axt.port.v1. Agent mode emits summary-first JSONL.
.SH SAFETY
Only free mutates external state. The command refuses PID 1, itself, and its
parent unless explicitly forced for the parent case.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
axt-port who 3000
axt-port --agent free 3000 --dry-run
axt-port watch 3000 --timeout 5s
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR axt-run (1)
