.TH AXT-SLICE 1
.SH NAME
axt-slice \- extract source by symbol or enclosing line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B axt-slice
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR \fB--symbol\fR \fINAME\fR
.br
.B axt-slice
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR \fB--line\fR \fIN\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B axt-slice
extracts the exact source block for a local symbol, including contiguous
doc comments and attributes above the symbol by default. It is designed to
avoid brittle manual line ranges after source files have been edited.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --symbol \fINAME\fR
Extract an exact symbol name, qualified name, or kind-qualified name.
.TP
.B --line \fIN\fR
Extract the smallest supported symbol enclosing line N.
.TP
.B --include-imports[=all|matched]
Prepend file-level imports/package/use declarations before the selected symbol.
Without a value, uses all. Matched mode uses local syntactic identifier matching.
.TP
.B --include-tests
Include syntactically detected test declarations from the same file.
.TP
.B --before-symbol
Include the immediately preceding symbol block.
.TP
.B --after-symbol
Include the immediately following symbol block.
.TP
.B --json
Emit the axt.slice.v1 JSON envelope.
.TP
.B --agent
Emit minified summary-first JSONL.
.TP
.B --print-schema [human|json|agent]
Print the selected output contract and exit.
.TP
.B --list-errors
Print the standard error catalog as JSONL and exit.
.TP
.B --limit \fIN\fR
Maximum agent records.
.TP
.B --max-bytes \fIBYTES\fR
Maximum agent output bytes.
.TP
.B --strict
Exit non-zero when output truncation is required.
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success, 3 when the path is missing, 6 for strict truncation, 9 for
unsupported input, and standard axt exit codes for other failures.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR axt-outline (1),
.BR axt-ctxpack (1)
