.TH AXT-LOGDX 1
.SH NAME
axt-logdx \- diagnose local logs with bounded grouped output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B axt-logdx
[\fIPATH...\fR] [--stdin] [--severity \fILEVEL\fR] [--since \fIRFC3339\fR] [--until \fIRFC3339\fR] [--top \fIN\fR] [--json|--agent]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B axt-logdx
reads local log files or explicit standard input and emits deduplicated failure
groups, common stack traces, severity timelines, and representative snippets.
It uses bounded in-memory aggregation and emits warnings when high-cardinality
logs require approximate top-group retention.
Invalid UTF-8 input is decoded lossily instead of aborting the scan.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --stdin
Read log data from standard input.
.TP
.BI --severity " LEVEL"
Minimum severity to retain: trace, debug, info, warn, error, or fatal.
.TP
.BI --since " RFC3339"
Include records at or after this timestamp.
.TP
.BI --until " RFC3339"
Include records at or before this timestamp.
.TP
.BI --top " N"
Maximum retained failure groups. Default 20.
.TP
.B --json
Emit the axt.logdx.v1 JSON envelope.
.TP
.B --agent
Emit minified summary-first JSONL.
.TP
.B --print-schema
Print the selected output contract and exit.
.TP
.B --list-errors
Print the standard error catalog as JSONL and exit.
.TP
.BI --limit " N"
Maximum agent records and retained groups.
.TP
.BI --max-bytes " BYTES"
Maximum agent output bytes.
.TP
.B --strict
Exit non-zero if truncation is required.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Uses the standard axt error catalog. Run
.B axt-logdx --list-errors
for codes and meanings.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR axt-run (1),
.BR axt-ctxpack (1)
